The same way how we have flex girl as well as flex shrink.
We also have flex bases that is responsible for our base value as well as flex property.
That is in fact a shortcut for the first value flex grow.
Then we have flex shrink as well as flex bases.
Now let's start with Flex bases first and foremost.
I'm gonna set up for all the boxes and currently I guess I have four boxes and for all of them I'm going
to set up right now my flex bases so flex bases properly and I'm gonna go 450 pixels.
Now what that means is that flex box can do whatever it wants or I don't want my boxes to be smaller
than hundred and fifty pixels.
However there is a problem right now and the problem is very simple.
We remember when we were setting up these styles CNS we added also a padding and if you notice here
anywhere in my CFS I do have the box sizing to be the border box.
So what happens right now even though I set my boxes to be let's say minimum 150 pixels my padding is
also adding some kind of with to my actual with.
Remember when we did not use the box sizing more box.
In fact if we had some kind of with when we added the padding while the padding was automatically added
to our with.
So that in case actually makes it very difficult to predict your layout.
So once we start working with these base values for sure we need to make sure that box sizing is in
fact set to a broader box.
OK that's case number one.
Now I also want to mention that in general when you are working with a flex box it is not advised to
have padding to left and right at the moment we added padding all around and all that worked out really
well.
But as we're going to be covering right now our Flex bases and how to set up the column layout in fact
I'm going to show you where we're going to run into issues when we have in fact the padding of left
and right.
So we're also going to change this but for the time being what we wanted to do is make sure that once
we have some kind of with let's say 150.
If I had the padding while the padding is not applied to the actual width of the Element.
Okay so that's step number one.
Now again let's go back.
We have our hundred and fifty pixels.
Correct.
That's my basis.
And if I check right now when my layout is changing and by the way at the moment I think I already know
what I'm going to leave the developer tools open but moment as you see I getting smaller smaller I get
the new line.
And if we're going to check out our elements within the container you're going to notice that the size
is hundred fifty.
So the moment are with gets less than half of 50.
That's when we're going to in fact wrap to a new one.
Now what is the reason for wrapping.
Because we're using the Flex ramp right.
That's number one.
Then like I said we also have an option of using the Flex Schalke where instead of typing out flex bases
flex growth lecturing I could type flex the first one is going to be a flex grow property.
And in this case what while you would want.
Well I could go with one correct because by default at zero so the atoms are not growing.
But I would want them to grow.
I'm also gonna set up a flex shrink to be let's say 0 9 because I would want my items not to shrink.
And then of course I could set up my base value and let's imagine that I would like to have my base
value to be 200.
So what is going to happen.
Well if there is going to be enough space course I'm going to have one line.
But then once my boxes get less than two hundred or one of them or all of them it doesn't matter because
as you can see right now I selected them all of them anyway.
Then we're going to wrap into New Line right because we never ever want to go less than 200.
Okay.
That will be the case where we could use the shortcut where I would like my items to grow as much as
possible.
Then I wouldn't want to shrink.
And then of course last if let's say one of my boxes gets less than two hundred.
Well we're going to wrap into new one.
And lastly I'm going to cover how we are gonna be setting up the column layout in our project.
So how it's going to work.
First and foremost I think I can make this smaller.
That's number one.
And then for the column layouts I'm gonna change it around.
But because I wouldn't want in fact my items to grow so growth is gonna be set to zero.
Shrink is gonna be set to zero.
And for the columns we are gonna use in fact a percentage values.
OK not absolute values but percentage values how it's gonna work.
Well let's imagine this scenario.
I have four items right now and I would want to have a four column layout.
So I would need to divide the hundred percent into four correct.
I have four columns so hundred divided by four would be 25 percent.
So I'm gonna add here 25 percent.
However it is not going to be completely correct because once I get a small screen size in fact I'm
gonna be wrapping and I went to a new line.
Now why this is not correct because like I said in fact we're adding padding all around.
So especially when we're setting up the columns it is not very advised to use the padding on left and
right because it is going to mess up your layout.
So instead what I'm gonna do I'm gonna say that 30 pixels is going to be top bottom and then left and
right is going to have a zero padding.
So this way all the time my columns are going to stay this 25 percent.
As you can see the bigger the screen size the bigger the columns smaller the screen size smaller.
This comes when we're not breaking this particular layout because we're not adding some unnecessary
pairings to mess up our land.
All right.
Now lastly I'm gonna cover how in fact we could set up a layout where we have right now our margins
as well in between.
Because we have our columns all that is good but you're probably wondering well how we can have some
margins or essentially some distance in between them.
Now the way it's going to work has the Flex basis value.
We can also use the cost function.
Mean we're in the core function we can pass some kind of values where CSX is going to calculate it.
So we our function and then within the function we are just passing in these values.
So in my case what I would like to pass in is 25 percent and then whatever I would like to have as my
margin.
So I'm going to go with one area but it is really up to you.
Just please please remember when you calculate these values make sure that you have the space in between.
Otherwise not going to work.
Notice it's not going to work.
So make sure that you calculate them correctly.
Now what that gives this is in fact this margin here which technically is not exactly what we want but
remember when we work with the container we also had this option where we can use justify content correct.
So could take justify content and then I can come up with whatever values I wouldn't want.
Do I want them to be space evenly.
Let's try it out.
Now they're spaced evenly we want space between we can do space between and you probably already guessed
that that space around is also going to do the same thing.
So what we're saying here is we're setting up whatever margin we would like.
And then once we have that particular margin well then we can control our items using justified content.
All right.
So those would be the general ideas behind flex bases where that is going to be a base value and it's
most advisable to use some kind of percentages not a pixels for that.
I know I did show you as a pixel example but in most cases you probably want to settle with percentages
because this is going to be a little bit more correct.
And also as a flex while you have multiple options right.
So you can add Lux growth to be one can have a shrink to be one.
It doesn't really matter now in most cases during the project when we're gonna be setting up our columns
this is exactly how we're going to do that.
We're going to set up our Flex be zero.
So they're not going to grow then they're not going to shrink because we would want to control the sizes
using the Flex bases.